All right,
then moving on to the compound pattern,
which is still using
the provider pattern by the way.
So maybe also if you still have questions,
this might clear some things up.
But with the compound pattern,
we can create multiple components that
work together to perform a single task.
And this is very nice to use
with the provider pattern.
So for example here we want to click on
a search and again this opens like that,
that search bar.
Now essentially what happens here is that
the search bar and this kind of like fly
outs, they all work together, like all
those components are performing a single
task like the user clicks on the inputs
then this input shows these list items.
So we could wrap all these
components within a provider
that provides that data or that state,
like okay, is this list item open or
is a list open has user clicking it and
all that stuff.
Now often what you see with
the compound pattern and
maybe you've used this in like component
libraries is that we can import like
a single component or
like a visual component.
And then we can use like dot notation
like fly dot input, fly dot list to
conditionally render the components
that this compound component provided.
Hope that was not too confusing.
So for example here we have like the fly
dot inputs which I tried to make like
here, and fly dot list list item.
Now you can see here that we don't
have any state in the search
input itself because that state is
contained within the flyout itself.
So we can see kind of
the implementation here.
And we will of course have an exercise
that also makes you do this, but so
the fly out component here, so
that's like the parent that wraps all
those smaller components,
that's a stateful component.
And that provides, all right, yeah so
we create a context again like we have for
the provider pattern, and this returns
a provider that has the open toggle
value and set value method,
just for this example,
of course you can pass anything,
and then that renders the children.
Now any of those children
can use this context or
use that consumer components to
retrieve the value of to toggle or
to set the value to open all the values
that we provided here in this provider.
Now the cool thing about the compound
pattern is that you can also just say like
flyout dot input is this input component,
flyout dot list is this list component and
that makes it super easy, yeah, to create
like those sub components because we only
have to have like one single import.
Like we saw here,
we can just do like import flyouts and
we don't have to also import like flyout
input, flyout list, flyout list item.
You don't have to do that
with a compound pattern, but
it definitely makes it clear like okay,
this is just one component and
all these sub components,
they just like work together.
It's just like part of
one bigger component.
It's not like a standalone
component on its own, yeah.
Now here we see that we're
just rendering it right away.
One other way that you might often see
it is using the react children map with
the clone elements.
So instead of directly rendering like
props of children like wrapped within that
provider, we can also just map all the
children and directly pass the props or
like these props the open, toggle, value,
set value the same like value that
provided to the provider before [LAUGH]
that we now pass it directly as props.
So you can see that here, like props and
then like on focus, on blur,
children, all those things, so yeah.
Let's see,
I guess this is just an example.
Yeah, so
here we're using like it's basically
just a real version of the example
that we saw before in the animation.
So we have like San Francisco, Seattle,
Austin, Miami all that stuff, and
we can easily render that here.
So we're just importing the fly outs,
we have the fly out input and we can,
if we want to,
we could just add more items.
I don't know,
have multiple boulders for no reason.
And then we have, so it's super
easy to like add new components and
if you are using maybe
a component library or
something, those components
are usually styled.
You see this in like material UI,
probably many other ones as well.
Yeah, we don't have to care about the
styling of the components or the state.
So it's super easy to
render stateful components,
but in a very easy, straightforward way.
Yeah, so the trade-offs like the pros are
kind of what I just talked about having
that single import, which is super nice.
We don't have to explicitly import
all those child components as well.
And yeah, so the state management, so
any component that uses such a compound
component doesn't have to
implement its own state,
because that's already contained
within that compound components.
Now the only kind of drawbacks is I guess
when you're using react children map,
you just have to be more careful with
how you're rendering those children.
Because it's like only direct children
will then get access to like all the props
that we pass, but yeah, that's just
kind of like implementation details.
Same with the naming collisions,
maybe the child components that we pass
already have props that we're then
passing when using react clone elements,
cuz it's only performing a shallow merge,
but again that's about it.
All right, so the last challenge of today,
as far as I know,
is to create a compound pattern or
a compound component.
So here we see that we
have an input component.
I'm just going to make this
big real quick, one sec.
Okay, so in this input component,
we see that we have the state for
logic, like set open value,
set value toggle.
And this one is or this input
component is rendering the flyouts.
Now you can see that this is not
a compound component like we're actually
creating all those children ourselves.
So instead, what we wanna get
is something like we saw before.
Like we just wanna be able
to import a fly outs and
then render a flyout dot input,
input list, list item.
So it changed this code to create
a flyout components that's
the input component returns,
if that makes sense, clear?
And of course, if you need any
inspiration, just scroll up a bit and
you will probably see the implementation.